OSDOCS-5458: Networking doc improvements for MicroShift (#57678)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer.adoc

* The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

.Procedure 

. Verify that your pods are running with the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

. Create a namespace with the following commands. This deploys a test application that verifies the connection.
//This needs more context of some kind
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ NAMESPACE=nginx-lb-test
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create ns $NAMESPACE
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged -z default -n $NAMESPACE
----

. Deploy three replicas of the test `nginx` application in your namespace.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -n $NAMESPACE -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/microshift/main/docs/config/nginx-IP-header.yaml
----

. You can verify that the three replicas started successfully by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n $NAMESPACE
----

. Create a `LoadBalencer` service config file for the `nginx` test application with the following commands: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -n $NAMESPACE -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  ports:

>   - port: 80

Reviewer: We shall use another port. Port 80 and 443 are reserved by the default router pods. And we shall also tell users to not use any port which has already been occupied by host processes.

Author: Thank you! Which port should I use instead in the command?

    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: nginx
  type: LoadBalancer
EOF
----

> . To verify that the service file exists and the external IP address is properly assigned, run the following command:

Reviewer: I think we shall also mention that the external IP address shall be identical to the nodeIP.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-networking.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Deploying a TCP load balancer on a workload

{product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. This process uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service configuration file. 

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)
* Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.
* A cluster installed on infrastructure configured with the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.
* The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

.Procedure 

. Verify that your pods are running by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

. Create a namespace with the following commands. 
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ NAMESPACE=nginx-lb-test
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create ns $NAMESPACE
----
+
This deploys a test application that verifies the connection.

. Deploy three replicas of the test `nginx` application in your namespace.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -n $NAMESPACE -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/microshift/main/docs/config/nginx-IP-header.yaml

Reviewer 2: We should not really point to GitHub URLs in the docs like this. They are prone to change and some users will have security concerns about downloading content and applying it directly. We can show the contents of that file in the docs instead (like we do below on line 59), but before we do that we will want to mirror the image being used so we can be certain that it is a safe image to tell customers to use.

Author: Yeah I think it would also be better to show the content directly.

----

. You can verify that the three replicas started successfully by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n $NAMESPACE

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to run 3 replicas on 1 MicroShift instance? I see the command below is showing that the load balancer does use different backends, but I'm not sure that's a realistic concern for MicroShift users.

Reviewer: This deployment is just an Example. Users can decide how many replicas for their applications. And maybe for applications, multiple instances can help to increase the throughput.

Author: Going to highlight that these are examples

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-networking.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Deploying a TCP load balancer on a workload

> {product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. This process uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service config file. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. This process uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service configuration file. 
```

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)
* Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.
* A cluster installed on infrastructure configured with the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.
* The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

.Procedure 

> . Verify that your pods are running with the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify that your pods are running by using the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

> . Create a namespace with the following commands. This deploys a test application that verifies the connection.

Reviewer 3: The commands are inverse to the directions. Looks like we're deploying first, then making the namespace.

+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ NAMESPACE=nginx-lb-test
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create ns $NAMESPACE
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged -z default -n $NAMESPACE
----

. Deploy three replicas of the test `nginx` application in your namespace.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -n $NAMESPACE -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/microshift/main/docs/config/nginx-IP-header.yaml
----

. You can verify that the three replicas started successfully by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n $NAMESPACE
----

. Create a `LoadBalencer` service config file for the `nginx` test application with the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -n $NAMESPACE -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 81
    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: nginx
  type: LoadBalancer
EOF
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> Do not use a port that is already occupied by the host process. 

Reviewer: The `port` setting should be a host port that is not occupied by other `LoadBalancer` services, host processes, or MicroShift components.

Author: Oh thats what it was! My apologies, I thought I was misunderstand a part of that. Thank you!

====

. To verify that the service file exists and the external IP address is properly assigned, and the external IP is identical to the node IP, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get svc -n $NAMESPACE
----
+
.Example output 
[source,terminal]
----
NAME    TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)        AGE

> nginx   LoadBalancer   10.43.183.104   192.168.1.241   80:32434/TCP   2m

Reviewer: It should be '81:32434/TCP', as we use `port:81` above.

Author: Oh goodness, right, good eye. This is when you know its getting to the end of the week 😆

----

.Verification 

* The following command forms five connections to the `nginx` application using the external IP address of the `LoadBalancer` service config. You can verify that the load balancer sends requests to all the running applications with the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
EXTERNAL_IP=192.168.1.241

> seq 5 | xargs -Iz curl -s -I http://$EXTERNAL_IP | grep X-Server-IP

Reviewer: http://$EXTERNAL_IP:81

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-networking.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Deploying a TCP load balancer on a workload

{product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. This process uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service config file. 

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)
* You created a {product-title} server

.Procedure 

. Log into your virtual machine (VM) and configure the {product-title} access with the following commands:

> //not sure what access means in this context and need to fix  

Author: I agree, I think thats a great idea! Updating with those details!

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir ~/.kube
----
+
[source,terminal]
---- 
$ sudo cat /var/lib/microshift/resources/kubeadmin/kubeconfig > ~/.kube/config
----

. Verify that your pods are running.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

. Create a namespace with the following commands. This deploys a test application that verifies the connection.

> //This needs more context of some kind

Reviewer 4: cc @pliurh

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-networking.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Deploying a TCP load balancer on a workload

{product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. The following example procedure uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service configuration file. 

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)
* Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.
* A cluster installed on infrastructure configured with the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.

> * The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

Reviewer 5: I think it supposed to be `KUBECONFIG`, looking at other precedents in the docs. Here is a random [example](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/disaster_recovery/dr-hosted-cluster-within-aws-region.html#dr-hosted-cluster-within-aws-region-restore_dr-hosted-cluster-within-aws-region)

I could be

> * The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

Author: Oh yeah I see that now. The devs referenced that these prerequisites are needed for this procedure and I just messed up what I already had. 
Thank you!

.Procedure 

. Verify that your pods are running by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

> . Create a namespace with the following commands:

Reviewer 5: s/by running/with

+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ NAMESPACE=nginx-lb-test
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create ns $NAMESPACE

> ----

Reviewer 5: Nit: Though it is not required, I have been encouraged to create substeps for the individual terminal commands. So, `.. Define the `NAMESPACE` environment variable by..."

> . This example deploys three replicas of the test `nginx` application in your namespace. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. The following example deploys three replicas of the test `nginx` application in your namespace. 
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-networking.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-deploying-a-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Deploying a TCP load balancer on a workload

{product-title} offers a built-in implementation of network load balancers. The following example procedure uses the node IP address as the external IP address for the `LoadBalancer` service configuration file. 

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`)
* Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.
* A cluster installed on infrastructure configured with the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.
* The KUBECONFIG environment variable is set.

.Procedure 

. Verify that your pods are running by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -A
----

. Create a namespace with the following commands. 
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ NAMESPACE=nginx-lb-test
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create ns $NAMESPACE
----
+

> This deploys a test application that verifies the connection.

Reviewer 4: This step creates the namespace, not a test application.
The next step is to create the replicas of test application.
We probably can remove this line.

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: nginx
data:
  headers.conf: |
    add_header X-Server-IP $server_addr always;
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: quay.io/packit/nginx-unprivileged
        imagePullPolicy: Always
        name: nginx
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
        volumeMounts:
        - name: nginx-configs
          subPath: headers.conf
          mountPath: /etc/nginx/conf.d/headers.conf
        securityContext:
          allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
          seccompProfile:
            type: RuntimeDefault
          capabilities:
            drop: ["ALL"]
          runAsNonRoot: true
      volumes:
        - name: nginx-configs
          configMap:
            name: nginx
            items:
              - key: headers.conf
                path: headers.conf
EOF
----

. You can verify that the three sample replicas started successfully by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n $NAMESPACE
----

> . Create a `LoadBalencer` service config file for the `nginx` test application with the following sample commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a `LoadBalancer` service for the `nginx` test application with the following sample commands:
```
